On the edge of this once sleepy coastal
town in Cambodia, a concrete fortress
looms, tainted by allegations of fraud
and exploitation.
[Music]
>> We're in the car right now because it's
not especially safe to be out.
>> This isn't just a getaway. This is a key
gateway to global crime. A number of
grim reports have surfaced of the
proliferation of scam compounds in the
region. These are places where traffic
people are forced to scam people out of
money in different jurisdictions around
the world. What hadn't been explored was
what infrastructure existed to allow for
it. And I increasingly found that
fingers were being pointed basically in
one direction. You'll see a Hwan pay
shop there.
>> It's called Hiwan. and government
authorities say it's a one-stop shop for
criminals.
>> The Treasury Department has moved to
classify Hiwan as engaged in money
laundering.
>> Quang is facilitating by far the largest
dark marketplace that's ever existed.
>> It's really the Amazon for criminals.
>> It just blow my mind. Wow, this is
another world.
>> The most brutal aspects of cyber crime
are no longer just the work of desperate
individuals. They're now connected by a
streamlined industrial system using apps
available to anyone. And according to
authorities, one company sits at the
center of it all.
So, when I came here last, there was a
big way sign
that has been taken down. There's no
clear markings of what it even is. Now,
this is one of the headquarters for the
Hiwan Group, a large Cambodian
conglomerate offering financial services
that, at least on the surface, appear
clean. under the Huiwan Group umbrella.
The first is Hiwan Pay, which is a
payment services arm of the
conglomerate. And in many ways, this is
a very legitimate business. When you go
to a Cambodian restaurant or a hotel or
a convenience store, you'll find a QR
code often with the Huiwan logo. You can
use your phone and an app to pay for a
product with that QR code, and that is
the public front of that subsidiary.
But the US government alleges that
behind the scenes of Hiwan Pay is a cell
called Hiwan International Pay, which
they claim is involved in money
laundering.
The script is somewhat familiar for how
this all plays out. Let's say you're
sitting in the US. You receive a random
WhatsApp message from someone claiming
that they want to get to know you, a
fake romance. Once that scammer has
taken funds from that victim, according
to those that we've spoken to within
Quay One Pay, a scammer and a money mule
will be matched together by somebody
actually referred to as a matchmaker. So
that money is then moved by a money mule
into another account and then offshore
and then into cryptocurrency. And once
that entire chain has been completed,
Wayan will come in and take a commission
for bringing the scammer and money mule
together. The second arm of the Huiwan
group that's implicated with elicit
activity is called Huiwan Guarantee. It
is an online marketplace hosted on
Telegram, the instant messaging app in
which buyers and sellers can meet and
purchase in many cases illegal items.
Way Guarantee sells everything that an
online scammer needs to target and
extract money from its victims all over
the world. So that ranges from stolen
personal data all the way through to
receiving and laundering payments from
victims. What Hwan has said in its
defense is that all it does is serve as
a guarantor and that it can't moderate
every single ad that's posted on
Telegram within its channels.
Officials who've tracked the platform
say with everything in the one place,
scams can operate more efficiently and
expand exponentially. These marketplaces
are vast. They can have thousands of
merchants and hundreds of thousands of
of users. Overall,
>> the volume dwarfs anything that's
existed at any other point in time. all
that first generation of darknet market
silk road alpha bay in total they did
about $1 billion worth of transactions
whereas one guarantee on its own did 28
billion it's just absolutely enormous in
terms of scale but proving way
facilitates illegal activity is not as
easy as it appears although registered
as a privately owned business in Hong
Kong very little is known about its
finances
>> this is a company that doesn't want to
be understood good. It doesn't want to
maintain a public persona and it wants
to be a bit of a black box.
>> But internal accounting documents seen
by Bloomberg reveal how Hiwan
International Pay kept meticulous
records suggesting its employees may
have actively brokered illegal deals.
Within the documents, there are cells
devoted to each victim. It will have the
amount of money that was taken from the
victim. It will have the bank where
money was wired to. So what we've been
able to do with these documents is
create a direct line from Huewan to the
victims who have fallen prey to scams
and also to the money mules who have
been directly involved in moving those
funds out of the US and converting them
into crypto.
Quan operates in public telegram groups
similar to chat rooms where thousands
openly buy, sell, and trade illicit
goods and services concealed only by the
unique use of slang.
>> So there's a lot of activity here, lots
of advertisements for different kinds of
scams. So here you have one
advertisement saying
this is not how normal people would talk
in Chinese. Um so here they're using the
term that literally means moving bricks.
You have which literally means dog
pushers
refers to in-depth relationship building
with the victim. In the western media,
people call it pig butchering. A person
who doesn't understand anything about
this industry would look at this and
think it's all gibberish.
This sprawling ecosystem for criminal
activity has come a long way since the
early 2010s when one young Vietnamese
hacker gained access into the database
of almost 200 million American
identities. I was marking like 3
millions USD by selling uh phone
information and US identities. In Ingo's
criminal past, he had to create his own
website to advertise and sell the data
he'd stolen and launder the profits
himself. The framework way has created
facilitates all of this.
>> Anybody now can be a cyber criminal.
It's a lot easier than before.
This is uh one of these new home groups
and this group have 4,500 members. It's
very simple. You just send a strong
request and immediately you got into the
groups and this group is related to um
money laundering from 10 million to like
at least 300,000 USDT. It kind like eBay
or Amazon like data, bank account,
social media account. You can search in
anything.
>> Investigators say there's a reason why
the group chats are written in Chinese.
Much of the criminal activity in these
Telegram chats can be tied to China.
When you drive through Cambodia, you'll
notice something almost immediately,
which is that China has a large
development presence in the country. So
on the roads, many of the infrastructure
projects will often be sponsored by
Chinese companies. And China has become
a very important political and financial
backer to Cambodia's development. But
that's really one piece of the answer
for why China has such a stake in
Cambodia.
The cyber crime industry in Southeast
Asia, these scam compounds, for example,
are a multi-billion dollar industry, and
they're often underwritten by Chinese
mafia members.
That direct relationship has been key to
Hiwan's rapid growth, according to one
UN report.
It also says Cambodia is a major driver
behind Southeast Asia's transformation
into the world's fastest growing cyber
fraud hub.
We're about to enter a part of the city
called Chinatown, which is a pretty
sketchy part of Siennville. There are
Chinese casinos here. A lot of security
in and out of these compounds.
>> Human rights groups say thousands of
trafficked people have been imprisoned
on the floors above the casinos, held
against their will to keep the scam
operations running. Here we have some of
the electric batons, electric shackles
that we saw for sale on Wayan Guarantee.
The advert mentions that these are for
use on what they call runaway dogs,
which is jargon for individuals that
have escaped from scam compounds.
As a blockchain analytics firm, Elliptic
could track the spoils from scams as
they were converted into cryptocurrency,
a trail that sparked a 2-year
investigation. This is probably one of
the most complex pieces of research
we've ever had to undertake. We came to
the conclusion that the vast majority of
transactions on this marketplace were
illicit in nature.
[Music]
We are going to Bartitka Street. We are
looking for a company called Huon Crypto
in 2023 to circumvent Cambodia's complex
crypto laws. People familiar with
Huwan's operations say it established
its very own cryptocurrency exchange
known as Hiwan Crypto, not in Cambodia
or China, but in Poland.
Spooky
spoke.
Hello.
>> This is goodbye.
>> I introduced myself. I said I'm a
journalist. He said this is a virtual
office. Goodbye. And just hanged up.
I found tens, hundreds of companies with
the same address. This is not illegal.
So, it's just a company renting a
virtual address to pretend they operate
here.
>> While virtual addresses like these are
commonplace in legitimate business, gaps
and inconsistencies in crypto regulation
can also be exploited by criminals
wanting to move money without detection.
With other business branches in
Singapore, Canada, and the US, Quan's
tendrils stretch across the world.
This here is Panda Bank on the left hand
side.
>> Investigating Quan further has only
uncovered more mysteries.
>> Hiwan has directors that also work as
directors for other powerful
conglomerates and banks in Cambodia.
>> Hanto, a director of Haywampi, is the
cousin of Cambodia's prime minister.
He's also a former director of Panda
Bank, a major commercial financial
institution in Cambodia. And another
director of that bank is H Yenming, the
listed owner of Hiwan Crypto. This is
potentially the tip of the iceberg. It
raises this broader issue of is Hiwan
acting alone? How deep does this really
go? And that's a question we don't know
how to answer yet. According to
Elliptics research, the Quiwan Group
entities, which include Quiwan Pay,
Quaiwan Crypto, and Quaiwan Guarantee,
have received over $91 billion in crypto
assets in the last 5 years alone.
Since Elliptic published their research
in July 2024, steps have been taken to
put pressure on Quiwan. Telegram has
taken action and has shut down most of
the channels used by Quan Guarantee.
Tether's USDT stable coin is accepted on
way one guarantee. We have seen Tether
freeze wallets both on the instruction
of law enforcement but also based on
their own investigations.
The other more significant step from
international agencies was taken by the
US. The Treasury Department has moved to
classify Hiwan as a foreign entity
engaged in money laundering and
effectively blacklisted from US markets.
In this underworld though, survival is
built into the system. Moderators from
old Telegram groups have directed
business to other marketplaces,
including one Hiwan owns a direct stake
in. Quan has also developed its own
stable coin known as USDH which will
evade anyone trying to freeze their
wallets. And as of June 2025, Quiwan
crypto appears to have rebranded itself
as CEX. According to Chain Analysis,
Quaiwan's transaction volumes remain as
high as ever, and a number of reports
suggest its operations continue largely
uninterrupted. It's basically a game of
whack-a-ole. For every Hiwan that's
taken down, another one sprouts up. And
the scariest part of all of this is that
this isn't some dark corner of the
internet where you have to be in the
know to access it. This is something
that anyone can participate in. This is
all in the open.
[Music]
Heat. Heat.